[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
All right, students, let's. Let's start with the class.

Can you guys see me? Yes.

No. You need to live. Of course. Extremely sorry.

And thank you for adjusting to my, um, my schedule today.

Uh, it was just not possible for me to come to campus by 6 p.m.

Uh, I'm pretty sure this won't happen again. So for today, I.

You know, I'm very grateful to you.

Um, but before we go ahead so that we can make this session, uh, interactive as usual, we need to follow some protocols.

Uh, so hands up if you can see me in class, you can hear me.

Well. All right. Uh, once you have a question, which is, I'll give you a regular.

At regular times. We'll take a pause for you to ask questions. But if you do have a burning question, put your hand up so I can see it.

Or just say something and we can like, you know, pause and, uh, and answer that question.

Um, for answering questions and for interacting. I've done a few things.

I've asked them to provide you with the mic that you can pass along, uh, and ask a question.

If you're loud enough and I can hear. Yes. That's also that also works.

Um, there is a live Q&A session that I've started on Piazza.

So if you have your laptops or your phone and log into Piazza, you can definitely post questions there that can be uploaded.

And we can, you know, take care of those questions as well. Uh, we get some time during the progress of the lecture.

Yeah. So with that in mind, uh, let's start the class.

Any any suggestions? Questions? Okay. Okay, so let me share my screen.

Shares the. Right.

I'm. I think you guys can see this, right?

Uh, I've also, for today's session, uh, have a second, second camera that have hooked up.

So you should be able to, uh, see notes that I might scribble about the content of today's lecture.

Mhm. I think in the second half. Okay.

All right. So today's lecture is going to be the first lecture after the introductory session we had two weeks ago.

Um, this is going to be on digital data acquisition and media basics.

Uh, this will cover chapters two and three of the textbook.

Uh, at the end of this lecture, I will also announced the first assignment.

Share it with you, go over it briefly and post it as well.

Um, so let's. See what this lecture, uh, covers.

Now, in the last lecture, we described this end to end multimedia pipeline.

We also said that. Essentially to talk about multimedia, we need to be in the digital representations.

It is a digital representation of the digital ness of um, uh, of uh uh uh, the fact that all video,

audio in different media types can be in ones and zeros, that it allows, uh, for us to be, um.

I know what you. Montevideo. Data. Um, but this.

But the signals that we, uh, have around us in this world are analog.

And these analog signals are then converted by, um, by recording devices like camcorders and digital cameras to go into the digital representation.

So today's lecture will essentially have, um, this area of coverage,

which is how do we go from the analog medium into the digital representation

for all the different media types and what's in the digital representation?

How do we, uh, go about representing our data data structures and what, what what are exactly the formats that,

uh, that encompass all those different media types in the digital domain?

And then, um. Or do you want to study in this lecture is actually how do you digitize a signal?

What is it that you need to be aware of when digitizing a signal?

How do we make sure that we have no loss in the digitization?

Um, but lastly, if there is a loss that needs to happen, uh, whether it's during the digitization process or even after the digitization process,

because frequently when you go into the digital domain, you might end up.

Resampling. What is the signal? For example, to take a high resolution image from anyone who posted on Facebook or somebody?

It might get downsampled to a lot with one resolution. You know, inherently causing some kind of loss.

So in such cases, how do you minimize that loss? Um, so this lecture.

Could stand to be like, you know, the compressing of a, uh, of a signal processing course, uh, to go into the basic to go into the very deep details.

But that's not what the intent of this lecture is. In fact, what you want to understand out here is basically in the digitization process,

how do we manage the quality of the data and also the quantity of the data,

because both quality and quantity ultimately, uh,

represent a big factor in how we interact with this volume in this data and how

we perceive the overall quality of the content that's going to be created.

Okay, so in today's lectures we want to have issues in digitizing your signal.

Uh, signal sampling, quantization, bitrate. What do you lose in resizing process?

What do you and why do you lose it? How can you minimize this loss?

We're talking about filtering and subsampling. We don't talk about acquisition, the media and the formats.

A large part of the second half would be devoted to the video signal and the beginnings of television.

Uh, television is a video signal, uh, as we understand it.

But the way it has evolved in terms of its standards and its establishment for sharing

TV content has long standing in the standards that digital data now has to be.

Digital video now has to be to to make sure that those standards and legacy,

uh, formats are somehow respected as you go into the digital presentation.

So that will be, uh, a good understanding of the progress of the history of television.

Um, and then finally we'll talk about, you know, some aspects like aspect ratios and component video formats as well.

Um. All right. So. Did you guys see my video?

My face. Yes, though.

In glass because it helps to have a visual. Or do you just see the screen?

Okay, good. So. I'm stealing from Christopher's response.

Could see my face as well, so I can do some gesturing and, uh, hopefully get some feedback.

Okay, so let's start with the digitization process. Okay.

Is this? Hopefully this large enough for you guys? Um.

So the goal of the digitization process is to take a signal which is in its analog form.

Let's say, for instance, the light in the room which we measure with the camera, uh, the light signal, the amount of light in the room, you know,

it keeps on changing depending upon, uh, light speed is switched on and off, doors opening and more light entering and so on and so forth.

And so this signal, which is changing continuously in the digital world and in the analog world, needs to be.

Digitized through a capturing device, which in our case is a camera.

So if you take the example of a camera, we have a a lens.

This lens, the job of the lens is to make sure all the rays of light are then converged on, or focused onto the image plane.

Right. There is an image playing out here. And the image plane is covered with a lot of sensors.

Which I call, which may be similar sensors, let's say.

Um. These sensors have provided a substrate onto which the light is falling.

The amount of light energy that falls on it releases a charge.

And the charge mimics. Photo is analogous to the original signal that's falling in that area.

Consider an analogous problem the iron ore. Um, but then this signal needs to go through a.

Digitization process goes from analog to digital HD.

And the output of this is going to be a discrete set of samples.

Now, in theory, this is pretty well known.

You can understand the fact that this is a continuous signal, uh, in one dimension.

Or it could be a continuous signal in two dimensions.

Uh, and this is a discrete signal that samples in one dimension or samples in two dimensions to represent the surface.

Right. In the end, when we take the digital samples for digital representation and use it to create our content, make our videos,

make our images Getty Images and then finally deliver it through a network to the end

terminal the consumer that needs to then consume it by watching it or hearing it.

The signal on the other end at the endpoint. This is frequently going to be converted back from its digital form to an analog from the D to A right.

And ultimately we get.

A signal coming out and the whole goal of this process that you want to others and that you want to do is in the initial capture process.

You capture enough of the salient information in the signal such that when you go from digital to analog, this.

Is the same as this. These two need to be equal.

Otherwise, there's a loss. And that's the whole, uh. The whole goal of these classes.

And this lecture is to the first half of this lecture is to understand what is it that we need to ensure in this digitization process,

how does this occur and where do we go? How do you go about this conversion process?

To give you an example of an analog and a digital signal, um.

Here's another log. Which is a continuous signal on the left, and you have a discretize of digital signal on the same representation on the right.

Thank. Don't we want to ruin the digital book for many reasons?

One digital signals are where we find our multimedia representations, and also digital signals are better than the box signals.

As long as you capture them appropriately in the conversion process.

Because number one, digital signals don't degrade over time or over speed.

So distance if you make a copy of digital signals, it's an exact copy.

Because now you have many, many different.

Many, many different ways of distributing digital signals across a variety of networks of consumption,

and all practical applications become possible with digital signals and.

Yeah, I mean, it seem to just more high fidelity. I mean, think, uh, um, you know, degree or time, um, can be recorded properly.

You can do a checksum on them to make sure that if the, if any copy is not up to the mark, then you can create the copy again.

Yeah. So the process of going from analog to digital.

Happens to be, uh, to, um. Who?

Which is going to be, uh, sampling. Let's call it sampling.

And quantization. Now in the sampling process, what happens is.

You have the original signal. This original signal is then.

Captured or reasoned with at distinct points in time.

Or space. If it's a two dimensional signal, like an image where.

These. Unique points in time are separated by a parameter of d units daytime units, which is called the sampling period.

And at each location you want to find out what is the value or what assign.

How can you assign a value to that signal? So in a sense, if you have a analog, an original work signal, which is x of T, the sampled signal x of N.

Will be defined over x0 and d.

Where excess of one is equal to.

Effects of t x sample of two.

Physical effects of duty. And so on.

But just as you'd, which is a sampling period. You also have f, which is equal to one over t for the sampling frequency.

Right. And.

You can choose any tea, right? Normally these are very regular quantity.

Um. It's the same or. Um, for the signal capture.

Normally. The big question is what?

Should. TV.

Because if the increases, which implies frequency decreases.

Right. Is this good or bad? Well, the good reason that if D increases, that means the distance between these two units is going to increase,

which means there's going to be less number of samples, which means there's going to be less data.

Which is good because you want to. Start off with less data if you can.

But you don't want to compromise the quality of the signal, right?

Correspondingly, the decreases which implies a frequency increases the sampling frequency, which corresponds to a shorter distance.

Then you get a lot more data. Which is good because that will increase your quality.

The quality of the signal. But then you also run the risk of oversampling and giving too much data.

And so the main. Question you want to ask is for your signal.

What is the ideal value of the. Um.

Let's keep that question aside, um, and come back to it.

Okay. But once you know what your TV is and know the exact points in time at which you're going to sample your signal.

Thank you. Then need to assign a number of bits for each sample, which is the quantization process.

So in the quantization process you take the range of the signal which is in this case let's say going from zero to R and you have the signal.

And you divide the range into. Different levels.

So in this case, let's say for the three bit approximation you have the zero level which is 000.

Then you have the first level which is 001. 010011100.

101110 and 111.

So are. Eight. There are eight intervals.

Um, and there are a number of those folks, um, or actually in sort 123456, seven intervals, eight levels.

And they all equal equidistance and increase based and the sample they are represented as follows.

So given your sampling rate or whatever your chosen D is at each location,

we need to figure out what the value, what the level is that this can be quantized to.

So there is going to be some kind of a um, so like for instance this one, it's in the middle somewhere.

We need to decide, uh, what is the best.

So you round it off to the nearest level. Then in that case, in this case it's going to be the top one, right?

In this case, depending upon where it is. You want to round it off to the nearest level that you can see.

Like. And so on.

And so the output that comes through a quantization process will be.

This will result in a. 011.

This will result in a. 110.

This will result in A111. This will result in A110.

And out comes the redistricting. Knowing that this is syntactically organized as three bit samples.

So this is sample one, sample two, sample three, sample four and so on.

Mathematically speaking, you're x quantized of n.

Is going to be equal to some quantization of x.

Friend. And this quantization function is normally a rounding.

Which rounds the value to the. At the nearest, uh, interval level.

Doing. So in this case we are quantizing.

In this example we are quantizing it using b bits. For anarchists is equal to three above.

But understand that quantization on undergoes rounding.

And whenever there's a rounding, there's a loss. There's an error.

Right. So given that your ranges are.

And your quantizing would be bits. What is your maximum error that you will get?

So give this some thought. You want an answer in terms of R and B?

So what is the maximum error that can happen given and given that there are, but what is the size of the interval?

If I were in class, I would have asked you. Uh, but let me just give you the answer.

The range are is divided into. In this case one, two, three, four, five, five, six, seven intervals and seven intervals.

Because it's two raise to three, which is three bits minus one.

So if there are bits, the number of intervals would be to raise to be minus one.

And so all divided by two is to be minus one would be the interval size.

And the maximal error. Has to be equal to half this interval size, because if it's more than half, then let's go down to the upper one.

If it's less than half, it gets down to the lower one. If it's at half, then it's your choice over here.

You want to grab it too. Um, but if it's at Harvard and that is the maximum at or half the interval size is what your maximum variable would be.

So let's take a look at some examples. Um, thanks for sampling it and what quantization is.

Here's an example of quantization and wondering where on the left side the same signal is quantized with four bits,

and the right side is quantized with three bits. And you can see that.

More number of, uh, less number of bits.

Gets to one larger error in the approximation of the signal more number of.

It's being gets to a nicer approximation of the error.

And so a natural question for this is. What should.

What should. The value of B.

B. So.

So just as you watch your TV, you have also what should be okay because the higher the be.

The more clearer is the signal. But also the more the data.

And the lower the B, the less of the data, which is good, but also the more coarser the signal,

the more loss that you have in the digitization process.

So you want to be the right optimal sweet spot for both B and D.

And that's what we need to discuss next. So before we get into that let me.

Show you some examples in 1D.

So this is how quantization in 1D looks when the same signal just started on the right or the left is four bits for signal for example,

and on the right is two bits for some. If you look at it in, uh, competition in Google,

then you can see that every pixel which was originally eight bits, has been quantized down to six bits.

Has been quantized amplified bits. And as you go lower.

You start seeing, you know, all kinds of loss effects like banding and coloring and.

You can go on all the way to two bits and one bit, and this is what you can see, right?

You also have similar effects in color images where on the left you have every pixel represented by big bits.

This is 24 bits per pixel. And on the right you can see every pixel represented by four bits or just 16 colors.

So there's a color palette that you see on the bottom left here, which has been chosen through quite often.

Um, now every color, every pixel is a four bit index that maps to a color.

Each of these colors in this lookup table are all 24 bit columns, but do not, sorry, 24 bits for each pixel.

You're just storing a lookup table of 16, 24, 24 bit colors, and all the pixels in the in the in the image are mapped to one of those 16 values.

So each value in the image is now four bits. So a lot of compression.

I could see that there are artifacts. Um, but.

Depending upon what your output is or compression and the needs are, these things can be made to work and work really well.

What you're looking like across there. See if anyone has any questions.

Any questions where we want students or from in the class. All good.

Okay. Simple stuff so far. Okay. Now we come to the more, uh.

Involvement is, um. How do we decide?

Um, you know. Uh, you know, um, you know, t and how to decide your beef.

But before that, let's get into a the next metric, uh, which is.

Um, which is the bitrate. Sampling and quantization together will bring you to an important metric in multimedia, which is called the bitrate,

which is simply equal to the sampling rate times the quantization number of bits, which is equal to samples.

For second times bits.

Um. You know, it's samples for a second.

Bits for sample. So if you cross those two things out, you'll get bits of second.

Now if you go to some examples, you will see that in your bitrate.

Um. For example, if you hear something speech like human speech,

this has a sampling rate of eight kilohertz and a bit rate of eight bits per sample, producing a bit rate of 64 beeps.

So quantization of eight bits per sample producing a bit rate of 64 gigs.

Your audio CD has got 44.1kHz for sampling rate, and each sample is represented by 16 bits.

When you multiply them out, you get 706 kilo bits per second for mono sound.

Or if it's a studio, then it's doubled to 1.4mbps.

Teleconferencing similarly has a bitrate with 16 bits per sample, producing a um, so sampling rate between bits per sample for a single pick.

So you can see in this table, depending on whether it's an image or a video or audio or low speed signal,

you have various standards that that you and these standards and these numbers using are not arbitrary.

They have been arrived at with some constraints because this is besides your D, and this decides to be the number of bits.

Right. So now let's go to, um.

Then this is. How did I decide, you know. Okay.

Okay. So let's answer the next question, which is. How did you decide you did?

So what should be the value of each?

I'm. So let's take an example of a signal.

Let's say. If you have a constant signal.

How many samples do you need? So that you can reproduce the same signal properly in back when you transfer it to the analog domain.

Yes. Uh, if.

If you think about it, it's just going to be one sample. It doesn't matter what it is like.

You just need one sample. And this sample should be enough knowing that it's a constant signal, uh, to be able to reproduce the signal by.

What if it's, uh. What if it's a around?

You need to have some all over the place. So again, you should think about the fact that it's a linear signal up here.

Then, um, you will see that, uh, you just need, um, maybe two samples somewhere.

It doesn't matter where.

And then when it's around the corner, you have two points, and then you can fit a linear line to it, and that should be sufficient.

But it starts getting more complex when things signal gets more arbitrary.

The first arbitrary signal I can think of, not an arbitrary, but at least a more regular signal, is a senior sign.

That said. So what should.

What version or sample this. If I let's see if I sample this.

Here, here, here and here.

Which is every, um. 80s apart.

Is this sufficient to reproduce this signal in the analog domain?

Yes, you can yell in the glass. Yes.

On the looks of it, it seems sufficient because, um, yeah, you've captured the highlight points out here,

and then you sort of interpolated this with a similar, you know, some kind of a curve.

You should be able to fit it properly. But this value of D.

Is really accidentally aligned in this case because you just managed to come to the right position.

What if this was not one of you didn't sample or did? What if you sampled somewhere at a different location?

So let's say you sampled this is the original signal.

What have you sampled at, uh, let's say this location, which would give you this value and then exactly 10s apart.

You sampled it at this location, and then exactly three seconds apart, you sample data, this location,

and in this case, the constructed signal would probably look like something like this.

Which is far away from the actual signal. So in this case, it works because you took a very specific location.

But in general, depending upon where you sample 50s apart, you are not going to get the same original signal back.

And then this brings us down to what should be.

What's your TV wear? What? What is this? Maximum? Uh, what is this optimal, uh, thing to one?

To do this, we need to, uh, understand, um, very applicable, uh, theorem theory, uh,

not just in signal processing, but it comes up in all over the place, which is your.

Here. Transform. Oh, and I asked you guys, how many of you have heard about the Fourier transform?

I'm sure all of your hands are going to go. What if I take a vote on how many really understand the Fourier transform?

And this is big because not only does signaling and signal processing do the Fourier transform,

but since all the distribution channels are based on mPEG and Jpeg,

which also deals with frequency spaces and by folio and discrete cosine transforms, come again?

Um, that's an important place to really, you know, understand the value of it and how it works.

And now when it comes to digital rights management, because the distribution is in mPEG,

which uses frequency spaces for its representation for compression,

the digital rights management or the encryption and the watermarking algorithms that are used.

They also take into account. Um missed a few years contribution.

And so understanding Fourier transform and understanding actually um frequency base frequency space representations.

It's pretty cool to the understanding of, of of all these, uh, media related signals.

Um. So I think we should take some time to understand intuitively what is happening here.

Okay. Uh, so simply put, um, in the Fourier transform, what you proposed was, uh, given any signal f of t.

Um. This signal F of B can be composed of a summation of, uh, what I, uh, I sign I omega t.

Plus. Um summation over I again of VI cos I omega t.

And Omega is nothing but a function.

Of your, um, sampling period. Now let's simplify this, and let's think a little bit more of an intuitive understanding into this.

Now you know that sine and cosine functions are really the same.

They're just phase shifting. So whatever is applicable for the two of this together should be applicable for sine alone and for cosine alone also.

Uh so yeah let's do that. So you know in general you can say.

PhD. If you just think of the cosine does the cosine problems.

Then this should be represented as a summation of this which is equal to b zero

cos zero omega t plus b one cos one omega t plus b two cos two omega t plus so on.

Or in other words it's just b zero plus b one cross omega t plus the two.

Of course two omega t plus. So off.

You with me so far. I can't see you guys.

So let's. If not, raise your hands or write something in the um.

You are supposed. So what does this mean geometrically when you think about this representation?

So if you had a function which was something like this and this is your PhD.

Right. What this equation is saying is this is equal to.

We zero times a constant value cos zero is one.

Yeah, plus B1 times.

Cost of omega T. So this is going to be. Plus be two times.

Cost of two omega T, which is going to be. Plus be three times cost of three.

So essentially what it's saying is given at. You did the same thing.

On all these sides. Right.

You think the value of. Uh b zero times.

This is one. And that is because there is one. So f of t.

Is equal to b zero plus b one times cos of omega t.

If you call this let's call this specific d. Let's call this uh d zero.

D zero. Cross. Cross Omega T zero v2 cross.

Of. 2.30 plus four.

So we'll get to what the b0, b1, b2 are. But looking at this representation.

This should be pretty familiar to you. And in other domains like for example, if you had a three dimensional point.

How would you represent a 3D viewpoint? You have the point represented as x, y, z which are three coordinates, and you represent this point.

And if you remember, your coordinate geometry is x dot I plus y times g plus z times scale.

IJK are the linearly independent vectors that describe 3D space.

And x, y, z are the coordinates given an origin that can describe where the point B is along the, along with the ijk independent vectors.

So this ijk uh the basis vectors.

So you can see I j. And qui are the basis.

Vectors. And x, y, z.

Uh. The coordinates. What you're seeing on the left hand side is very similar.

They'll as you described. In 3D space any point P.

With coordinates x, y, z can be described by the following equation or ijk of the basis vectors and the basis vectors are known, right?

It's either a direction the x is a unit vector in the x direction of J's unit vector in the y direction.

K is an effect in the z direction in a similar way in the space of of frequencies.

Any single NFT can be described by.

A weighted combination. Given the coordinates, B will be zero, b1, and b2.

Just as you explained the same rule, a weighted combination of coordinates times the basis frequency vectors.

Okay, now the frequency vectors are also running. This is a course omega T, given that T is fixed.

You know, your, um your this period omega is fixed.

This is fixed. This is fixed and costs two cross three omega T is also fixed and so on.

So this is again the same in the same vein, trying to tell you that any function can be expressed as a linear combination of basis functions.

Which spanned the frequency space.

And these coordinates b0, b1, and p2 give the contributions of those functions or the contributions of excuse the contribution along the y axis,

y of the contribution of the axes by g unit vector z gives the contribution of the Kenan affected the some other way.

B0 gives the contribution along the um.

The amount of energy that is given by a basis function is given by its coordinate, and this coordinate b is.

Simply calculated as integral minus infinity to infinity, um of um.

Of. PhD. Cross of I, Omega Dee dee dee, whatever.

Is that ever in the signal for this frequency I omega.

Appears. Sum that amount of contribution up to give a weight to it, which is you by.

Okay. So let me take a pause here and ask if there are any questions.

Questions. Have you understood?

The concept of any function can be represented in the land of frequency spaces.

As a linear combination of weighted sums of basis frequencies.

Yes. Raise your hands if you have understood this.

Who? Okay. Uh, but it does beg some discussion.

Um. So when fully actually.

Discovered the strange relationship that any function is a sum of cosines or weighted sum of cosine.

So we did some of science. What was he trying to solve?

You didn't this. Magically just remember this. I was trying to solve something.

It was heat transfer. In the early, uh.

In the early 1800s. Uh, this was a problem that was, uh, you know, trying to.

Um, was eluding a lot of the mathematicians and physicists of those at that time.

Well, how do you come up with the way,

a formal way of describing how he travels through a rod or a blade where one side is heated and you want to find out the temperature?

Uh, at some point along the road, at some point along the plate. And to be able to predict that correctly.

Uh full-year. How to design. Um. This theorem, where he shows that, um, any function functional of heat.

In this case could be represented as a sum of cosines and sines, and so over time or over distance,

when you plug in the right values of d or the right values of x and y for the two dimensional function, then you get the actual value computed.

But the strange thing about this is when you propose.

He proposes for his thesis. Um, and his, um.

She says. Advisers who were actually grappling with what is this and how do we understand this were none other than, um, Lagrange.

The plus. Monge. And these mathematicians are greedy bigwigs of his time.

Not just his time. Of all the times. Imagine, as a student, you grew good in front of a committee that comprises of Laplace and Lagrange.

So obviously at first sight, you know, they did not accept his, uh, his contribution and his, uh, because there are many questions.

Does this work in all cases? Does it work when, uh, when the function is discontinuous?

Does it work when a function is is broken up?

Uh, what happens?

Uh, I mean, lots of exceptions, uh, and, uh, and I think when it was proposed, it wasn't like, you know, beginning in the like it should be.

But then after about another five years of work for you, approve.

That doesn't matter. Whatever the function is, it could be continuous, discontinuous, broken.

Um, c1 continuous, C2 continuous.

Uh, it still works. You could still figure out, uh, what the frequencies on, uh, what are the frequencies needed to approximate that signal?

It turns out that if it was a continuous signal, then you have less frequencies that approximate it.

If it's a discontinuous signal, then you probably have infinite frequencies that include the approximate.

Um, but overall, yeah, he was able to convince his, uh, his, uh, uh, his committee and,

um, although it was not for signal processing at that point of time,

this whole theorem has become pretty crucial to the crucial contribution to mathematics and thereby to other subjects which he was and understand,

uh, analyze, cause and analyze from uh, and his students.

Students test of time.

So I think it's I mean, the story is well worth it to understand, you know, how this theorem got into into practice and its usefulness.

Um. Yeah.

So, um. So in the in one of the upcoming lectures.

I'll go into more details with this because we need it for understanding compression.

Um, I'll bring up some applications, uh, apps that detail in one dimension and two dimensions.

Exactly how this works is computed. And you get a far better visual understanding.

But for now, in today's just to understand that every frequency or every signal that you want to digitize is composed of many frequencies.

And so, um. If you can find out the maximum frequency in the signal, then that will allow us to, uh, figure out how to digitize the signal.

Um. So let's take an example of what Fourier transforms do.

Oh. You see the lines here? Raise your hands if you can.

Yeah. So on the top you have X1, which is a signal of a particular frequency.

Yes, the amplitude is changing over time, but it's a signal on a specific frequency.

So if you did a Fourier transform of that. That's the output you see on the right.

What is this output? What is the signal on the left? Signal?

It's on the x axis. This time on the y axis is the amplitude.

Right? Uh, so over time, you see how the signal takers. On the Fourier transform site, which is of the right use on the x axis.

You see that you see all the frequencies frequencies starting from 0 to 1 to 1 to 50, 100, 1000, and so on and so forth.

Right and on the y axis for each frequency is the contribution of the frequency the b0, b1, b2, beis, and so on.

So what this is saying is that for this signal which is changing in this, in this manner,

I mean, it's crossing the, uh, the x axis at a distinct amount of time as you see out here.

The beaches are B zero is zero, B one is zero, B two is zero, P30 all the way until maybe B 50 is where the value is 300 and something.

220. And the 51 is zero and all the other by zero.

If you look at this other signal, x2 or the bottom,

and if you look at how it's changing and how densely that is, you know, going across the x axis, um.

With a higher frequency, presumably, and a bit of Fourier transform on it.

You see that it peaks at the actual frequency, which is probably around this, I'm going to guess, or 800 or 750 out here.

All right. But all the other frequency coefficients are zeros, because this is a frequency.

This is a signal made of just one frequency. If you take a combination, if you take x1 and x2 and add them together, which is what you want.

I'm just going to jump ahead a bit. Um. Yeah.

If you add x1 and x2 together. You will see that it looks like the following.

And if you pass this through a Fourier analysis and got the frequency coefficients and you plotted them,

you will see that the Fourier output gives you two peaks at the two different frequencies that comprise a single.

And in general, when we take any arbitrary signal that you record.

It's going to be of arbitrary shape. You're going to have many frequencies.

Some are going to be zero, some are going to be non zero. For sampling reasons.

To decide your tea, you want to find out the maximal signal whose frequency is non-zero.

Also whose value is non-zero on the on the on the Fourier transform sign.

So take a Fourier transform and you'll see peaks at various point.

Go to the last the highest frequency at which the signal is non-zero.

Um, given that frequency, you will need to sample at more than twice that frequency.

This is the Nyquist sampling theory to decide what your p value should be.

You. Um. Sorry for scrolling up your eyes.

Yeah. So the Fourier transform is very useful because given any signal that you want to capture.

You want to see that another important thing, something that you can take away from this class is.

The world. In which you and I live is not filled with random signals.

If it was random, and with the Fourier analysis of a random signal, you get all the frequencies present.

What's noise? But we have evolved to understand a structured world around us and the structured world with all its biases and its kind of,

you know, uh, lack of randomness. Is very structured and not all frequencies are going to be present in any signal.

Because of that structure, and because of the fact that only a few frequencies might comprise that signal,

doing a Fourier transform on that signal gives you the maximum frequency in that signal, and it tells you how do you.

Sample that signal. So, for example, the human voice.

It's produced by the likes. The larynx.

Whether it's a male or female human. It doesn't matter how loud you shout or how strange you sound.

The maximum frequency that a larynx can produce, because it is a mechanical biological device, is just four kilohertz.

You take anybody's sound and you do a Fourier analysis on it.

You'll see that the maximum frequency that there can be is only up to four kilohertz.

Okay. And so if that's the case, then you can sample the signal at twice that eight kilohertz.

And you can capture all the different details of frequencies in that signal. And so when you go to.

The stable back again. And you see these numbers?

Eight kilohertz, 44.1 K. These numbers are there for a specific reason.

For the human voice. For speech. I just told you that the lyrics can't produce more than four kilohertz of sampling frequency.

And therefore, by the Nyquist theorem,

you want to sample at more than twice the frequencies to be able to reproduce the signal back in the analog domain at the same without any loss of,

uh, loss of error. The audio CD is 44.1kHz.

Why is it 44.1? One second.

The dense stuff to the shirt content is blocked by a secondary shared application.

Can you share? Can you see my shared content? On the screen.

Okay. All right.

Thank you guys for the feedback. Um. Yeah, for the Audio City.

Why is this, like 44 different? It's because the ultimate consumer of any sound signal is your human ear.

And the human ear, just as your larynx is, also has also has, um, capabilities and shortcomings.

It cannot hear anything that is above 20kHz.

In fact, your ear is is operational.

You can hear things. Uh, between 20Hz to 20kHz.

If you cannot hear anything about 20kHz, then why bother?

Do we want to capture that signal? So you should actually sample at twice that rate if you want to sample music or you know somebody

who's playing a guitar sound or somebody singing with the guitar or with the music in the background.

You want to sample that at twice the human threshold of a frequency listing of 12, which is twice two times 20, which is 40kg.

So this number would have been sufficient if it was 40. But it's just 44.1 for standard services.

And for some, you know, variability and error at the, at the, at the, at the high levels of particulates.

So this column. There is a reason why each number is what it is.

This column is also a reason for why this number is that it is.

Okay. Um. How do you fix quantization beam?

Again, it's to do with perception. You can. At some point of time, when you start adding more and more bits to your samples in your representation,

you're going to come to a point where adding more bits is not going to change your perceived value.

They'll always be a loss in the signal. To get the signal, to be exact.

You get an infinite precision of bits. But what?

B is tolerable enough so that your perception does not make all the difference between the original and the sample.

That is what you want to work with. So for speech is in bits adding it, adding more bits, nine bits per sample,

converts for sample and then converting the signal back in the analog domain. You will find no difference.

And so you just think that minimal amount required so that your perception does not make all the difference.

For audio since is high much more high dynamic range.

And so you required, uh, more precision.

And that's why you would have 16 bits percent. And see with all the numbers that you see.

Okay. And we'll come across we'll see why these are as this 12 to 16 seven in the second half of the lecture.

Okay. The one thing I. I need to, um.

It was over for you guys. Uh, in the interest of, uh, full, um.

Capabilities of what signals do, because to tell you that we can do this sampling and quantization to come up with a digital signal.

Um. The whole process of digitization, sampling and quantization because, I mean,

that'll only work when our worlds and our and our recording instruments are LTI systems.

You know, if you are, uh, signal processing student or have taken any course in that, you will know what LTI is and stands for linear.

Time invariant systems. I'll just give you a brief closure on this.

This is. Um.

For any system if you have an analog signal. Next.

That needs to be digitized and produces an output quality.

On a sample, not with a bias. As long as this system is linear time invariant, you can do some sampling and quantization.

And what that means is if your, um.

If your input is, uh, x1, add some.

Let's say if your input is f0. So I'm just going to call x1 is equal to x of t one.

And x2 is equal to. X of T two.

Um, if your input is going to be x one. Then f of x one will give rise to y one, as the output f of x two will give rise to y two as the output.

The linear part of it is saying that if your input becomes f of c one times x1 plus c two times x2.

Then your output should be c1 times y1 plus c2 times y2.

Then it's linear. And if it's linear, then you can sample and quantize.

Time invariant, as the name suggests, is that if you go about sampling the signal at that time instant, then the value that you're giving to it,

or the value of that signal that you're that you're just seeing is dependent on only that time instant.

It's not dependent because of the contribution of that signal from the future, or from the contribution from the signal from the past.

It's only at that time, instant and instantaneous, that you can, uh, that you can, you can, you can, um.

You would have value, right? Um. So as long as it's linear and time invariant,

you can take a delta function and convolve it with the actual signal to get a value, which can then be your sample value.

To get into this a little bit further. If you have a function y equal to k x.

Is this a linear function? Jesus Christ.

Look at. Well, yeah, it's a line passing through the origin.

So yes, it is linear because you can find out that in this case that uh, uh y1 is equal to k x1, y2 is equal to k x2.

Uh, then if you see, um.

Uh uh uh. The combination of these two, which is going to be gigs one plus gigs two.

S equal to k into x1 plus x2. And this is equal to.

21 plus one. Two. Right. So if you have an input which is x1 plus x2.

It's a combined sum of y one plus y. What about, uh, the system?

Uh, do I equal to x squared? Is this a linear system?

Well, it should not be because it's got the exponent in it, right.

And you can you can think of it. You can prove it by saying, okay, if the input is x one,

you got x one squared as the output from the input is x2 x2 square of the input as the output.

And so the input is x1 plus x2 the whole the sum of the two.

Then the output is x1 squared plus x2 square plus two x1 x2.

And this is why was. This is why do and you have this.

So this is not equal to one and plus way to.

So it's not. And thereby, if a signal is like this, then you should not be able to.

Uh, what if it's, um. Y equal to x plus eight.

Is this a linear system? At the simplest, at the look of simplicity, it seems it's a linear system.

But when you work things out, see if your input is x1. And that implies the output y1 is equal to x one plus eight.

If the input is x two, this implies that your output y2 is equal to x two plus a or the include is x1 plus x2.

It implies your output y is equal to.

X1 plus X2 is replaced here. So it's going to be equal to x one plus x2 plus eight.

And this is not equal to y one plus y two. So this is not a linear system.

Anyway, this was just a, um, refresher to let you know that you need to have LTI systems that.

Uh, that that need to follow, uh, the, um.

Uh, because it's an AI system that you can. Sample and quantize and get your outputs.

Uh. That will. Okay, so now we come to the fact that, you know, now we know how to choose the.

So how do you how do choose? Be.

This we know now, right? Because it's by using the micro sampling micro student.

Which to summarizes our world is not random.

It's structured. And so when you do a Fourier analysis on your structured signal you will come across.

Not all frequencies, but some frequencies.

You want to choose the maximum frequency that is non-zero and sample at two times.

The maximum at more than two times the maximum frequency, and then you're guaranteed to produce the signal in the, um, to be correct.

Right. Which implies sample, uh, two times.

Max frequency. And you also don't know how to choose the.

The number of bits to represent a sample. And this is more empirical than experimental, because you want to have the human in the loop,

because ultimately all signals are going to be received by either the AI or the.

You're right. When you when you, when you go into your virtual worlds or your, you know, your your digital worlds.

And so we need to understand what the contribution of how the contribution of being is going to change your perception.

And you want to use a B. Which is enough so that adding more bits in B will not cause changes to your perception.

So we know how to do this. So as long as you follow these things.

You will. You're you're guaranteed to start with a signal in your multimedia pipeline that is at the best quality,

as it needs to be at the optimal quantity as it needs to be.

Because if you don't follow that, then you're going to have problems.

And sometimes also after the quantity has been, after the signal has been digitized with a certain value of t and a certain value of b.

When you go into the, uh, content creation process, you might end up.

Manipulating the signal or adjusting the signal in some manner that might end up.

Violating these principles. And as a result, you might end up, you know, in a loss.

So now we need to see what is this loss. Before that.

Let's take some examples. Um.

Whenever there's a loss. It's called anything.

And anything can happen in the time domain, in the spatial domain, and one dimensions and two dimensions in three dimensional matter.

It's a signal. It has a minimum requirement for sampling and quantization.

And if you don't follow actually sampling, if you don't follow that requirement, then you're bound to get.

A loss. So, um.

Let's see this in. One dimension.

So here is an example of.

A signal that is giving. So what is this showing you? Uh, this is showing you the original frequency, which is the sampling frequency.

Let me just get this to. Okay. So you can take an original signal.

This is the blue one, and the blue one is saying the blue line is telling you what the maximal frequency.

What is the frequency of the of the signal. So for example sinusoid of frequency five of frequency ten.

And so on. So you could produce any signal off a high frequency, low frequency light.

Forget the Microsoft. The red markers are giving you.

What? How should you sample this?

Should a sample that or. Uh. And what did you want to use for sampling?

You could sample it or a smaller or a larger.

And the signal in green that is now laid out here.

And it matches because there's no aliasing, there's no loss. It's not just the blue is what you, uh, what's the output?

So you can see as, as long as you're following the fact that your sampling frequency,

which is this readout here, which is 22 right now, is more than twice the input.

The input is also two more than four. All right.

Let's make it original quick. As long as it's sampling frequency is more than twice which is ten.

You want okay. I. So now with this, if you get your sampling rate to be smaller and get it to be less than ten.

You can see that the reconstructed signal which is in green, which is the interpolation of all the sample signals in red.

It does not match the original blue signal. And so, you know, this was a Samsung.

It was a human voice. Or if this was a music signal song, you would hear it very differently.

You're visibly you're seeing it differently, right? But you'll also hear it very differently.

And as long as you're less than the Nyquist limit, you're going to get at this thing.

And this is not going to match up to match this up. You have to increase the number of samples.

You can go and increase it to a large extent and oversample the signal.

And that's useless because now you have more samples of necessity, knowing that your original signal had a maximum of five.

You want to make sure that you go and sample that somewhere at slightly higher than ten.

And you okay, below ten will have anything above ten would be okay.

This is a visual depiction of what happens when you, uh, undergo and you see when you're not following in that closely.

But here's an example of what would happen when use.

Uh. Let's see. Um.

How that. Pretty sure. Yes.

Um. Hands up if you could. See if you could. If you could hear them.

All right. So let me try it again. So this is a un.

But if you were to sample it and add a lower, it's got some maximum frequency.

As long as you sample at twice the maximal frequency, you would okay.

But if you sampled at less than twice the maximum frequency and then try to convert it back to the analog to interpolate on the speaker,

you would see how it sounds. Uh.

You see, it's missing all the high frequencies in there. It doesn't sound the same as the original signal.

Here's an example of just one song, which is the middle C on a guitar line.

Let's play it again. You can see how it sounds.

And this is a two 56Hz. So it needs to be seamless.

Typically six or so needs to be sampled twice that, more than twice that.

But if you don't sample do it more than twice that. Oh, you see what happens?

You don't hear the exact door. And that's the same as a greeting you're watching in the other case.

That's one dimensional, right? Uh, you can have aliasing in two dimensions and also in two dimension.

Uh, good example on the right here is a nice curve that you see of your image.

Right. But if you didn't have enough pixels in the image to capture that curve.

If you didn't have enough of a resolution, then what's going to happen is you're going to have a very discontinuous approximation,

because those are the only samples you have. Right.

Uh, the same thing happens in this classical example of a checkerboard.

Now, the original signal is shown in all the cases of here. But what you see are the places where sampling occurs.

How the dots. Right. So if you look at the dots, have the prism into this and you can see it more.

Okay. So you can see that the dots are the places where sampling is occurring, is here,

and each sample is given the value of the, uh, value of the of the of the other pixel in that location.

So if you're sampling here and then here and then here and then here,

you are actually above the sampling frequency in the image, which is the changes of black and white pixels.

And you can get the entire, uh, thing as you see out here.

On the bottom right, you are sampling at a different sampling distance.

You increase the sampling distance and thereby know audio frequency.

And you can see that in this case your sampling the locations that we are sampling.

Results in this. You don't get to go back in.

See you on the right, you can see that you actually sampled at a much larger distance than even this one.

And as a result, you just got black.

So the sampling frequency. Or in this case, your sampling distance is very important.

You want to make sure that whatever you're using as your frequency is more than twice the frequency of the signal, plus the maximum frequency.

Yeah. And you can see this.

And this in effect happening when it comes to spatial aliasing.

Thank you. You can see the image of the shirt out here which is got a very high frequency texture pattern.

It looks good, but frequently when you have an image of it or if you don't,

you you observe this on television because the television resolution is not as

high as your resolution required to understand the spacing between these lines.

And as a result, you get some sampling effects out here. Um, editing effects.

Uh, here is another example of patterns which are called moiré patterns.

Uh, and. You can see that.

Depending upon. Uh, I think it's it's going to be seen.

Can you see these concentric circles?

The difference between them is the distance between the circles on the left is larger than the distance between the circles on the right.

Now you can see at this resolution you can see that the left one behaves well.

You can see concentric circles. I don't know how you're seeing it.

It might be different on your resolution would depend on the resolution to seeing on the screen of that.

But this has shown that it's concentric circles, whereas the center one on the right one.

You see that although I've told you the concentric circle, you see certain moiré patterns which don't match.

But that's because the resolution of sampling is violating the Nyquist criterion.

Now, if you zoom into this. You, you'll see that some resolution.

This guy looks perfect. This guy looks better is actually concentric circles,

but this guy might have some patterns on your screen that you, uh, that don't conform to concentric circles.

Which is again, the more in effect the aliasing effect. Yeah.

And you can also see this in three dimensions. I'm sure you've heard of the Wagon Wheel phenomenon.

Let it load and I'll put it on screen. Okay, so here is, uh, rotating view.

Right. I'm going to. 20 frames per second, but, um, increase it.

It rotates. And to make sure that, you know, the actual speed of rotation,

the actual speed of rotation that's been computed is also shown to you by this rendering of a school.

On top. So this is all of the ground truth. Thank.

You know what's going to happen as I start increasing it. And at some point of time you will see the wheel turning the other way.

It would also come to a point where it becomes. Static.

Although. You know that.

The roof actually rotated. Okay.

So what is happening? You. What is causing aliasing.

But think about that. You need to understand a few things. What is your signal?

What is your sampling? Is this sampling large enough?

More than twice the frequency of the of the signal such that it is and should not occur.

And if it's not, then it is. So what is the signal?

Not here. The signal not here is your RPM rotation rotations per minute.

All right, politicians, for a second. How many rotations does it get per second?

Yeah, it's given an RPM, but you can convert that into rotations for a second.

Right. Um, and then the sampling corresponds to the display of the frame rate of display.

And as it's rotating, how frequently are you sampling and showing the image?

As long as that rate of display is faster than twice the rotation of the screen, you will be fine.

The moment your speed of rotation increases such that it goes above.

The display of the twice the frequency goes above the display.

You're going to get aliasing and the and the image is going to start looking as it's going backwards.

Um, or has got some, you know, spatial catching up to do although the actual rotation is is in the forward direction to.

Okay. And then, um.

One more last example. This is a good example of a.

Are going, in fact. You can see that the properties are not turning at all.

This happens because the speed of rotation of the of the of the of the propeller was exactly equal to or direct multiple of,

uh, the actual, uh, shutter speed of the camera. So these are some of the aliasing effects that you observe in the real world when you

cannot when you don't follow the Nyquist criterion of digitizing in the first place.

Okay. So next. I want to share with you.

Another common thing that happens, which is. When you go about, uh.

If you've captured the signal properly, it looks correct, it renders correctly, but in your multimedia pipeline, in your content creation point.

And at some point you discover that, oops, this is.

Not working correctly because, um.

Something changed. For example, you might have taken an image which was originally cut to the 1920 by 1080 high definition quality.

But when you went to um. Do some operation that they can stick it in a, in a word document or, you know,

upload it to Facebook it, downsize it to half its size and growth and height for preserving memory.

And thereby now we threw away samples and throwing away samples.

Now for us to violate the maker's criteria. And you get anything?

Uh, a very good example of that. I mean, let's just walk through it. Um.

And let's look at, um. This original image from the original image.

When you subsample it by two. Subsample by two means throw away every other pixel.

Subsample by three minutes through every third pixel. So you're throwing away every other pixel.

So this is a video of a final image to begin with. And then you start throwing away every other pixel.

Right. So, um, just look at the example on your left.

Forget that. Like, we'll talk about what the right is. We look at that, you see that although the original signal sort of clear.

Quality of all pixels in the image, including the low frequency areas, which is like the surface of the fruit and the and the plate,

and the high frequency areas, which is the towel or the napkin that you see.

Okay, I call it high frequency because the pixels in the neighborhood are changing very rapidly compared to the pixels in the neighborhood on the,

on the fruit or the fruit. Right. So when you subsample it by two and you come down to a 2 to 6 by 26 map, you start seeing that.

Yeah. I mean I'm getting the images of the fruit and plate are looking kind of okay, but you're seeing some noisy patterns coming up.

In the napkin area. The high frequency is getting aliased, and that becomes even more obvious when you go down on a subsample by, you know,

again, uh, by two for the previous one, where you see that now the napkin is really horribly, uh, in the stump.

Um, and you can see some menacing effects in the, in the other parts of the.

Now, this is natural because you're throwing away samples. You're throwing away samples.

There's going to be a loss and there's going to be a loss. You're going to have aliasing no matter what.

The question here is how do you minimize the effect of aliasing when you're going through such operations in your, uh, in your content creation by.

And one common way to do it is by filtering. How many of you know what a filter is?

A filter is a way in which you process the input image so that you change the frequency content of.

Okay. So in this case, what we have done.

Now I going to explain to you mathematically, you'll be able to implement it in your in your in your assignment is doing a averaging filter.

So from the original image. When you subsample by two, you took every other pixel, right?

And you threw away the corresponding other pixels than your rows and columns.

When you did it without referring to just simply straightforward, you had a straightforward copy of that value.

In that location. But rather than copying just that value.

If you look at the neighborhood of the value. And take the average of the neighborhood.

A three by three neighborhood, let's say, and copy the average of the neighborhood into its location on the right hand side.

Then you see the content becoming a lot more. Visually smoother.

There is a loss. Of course there's a loss. You're throwing away information for throwing away pixels, right?

But the but the fact that you're resampling by throwing away, that's what you're doing.

You're throwing away samples, right? When you're in a resampling process, you're doing an averaging.

Fruit of the averaging filter gets the original frequencies, the original signals frequency frequency content lower.

That's what an average does, right? If there is. Frequency variation.

Doing an average of all the frequency variations and lower on the average, the average becomes lower than that.

Then whatever's going on in the neighborhood. And by lowering down the average.

What you do now, do a sampling or a resampling, your anything effects are also minimized.

So same thing here. When you do a subsampling, why do you get the value to be this.

But if you replace instead of directly copying it, if you copied it as the average of a three by three neighborhood.

Then you can see that the output is much more pleasing to the eye, and there is less aliasing compared to what would have happened without, uh.

Without subsampling. You know.

So that's a whole goal of a goal of approaching filters is when you have, um.

When you have a signal and you pass it through its low pass and its high pass filter.

Low pass is simply the averaging in a three by three neighborhood, and high pass is a different signal in a three by three quarter.

But forget the differencing for the. You can see that the sum of these two will bring back this.

What you're interested in is really when you're when you're subsampling, when you're resampling it down to a lower size,

whether it's audio signal or image signal, you want to make sure that there is, uh, low pass filter outputs that are then copied into the output.

Here's an example for some of the audio filtering example. You have a cutoff frequency the microphone which is 100kHz.

Which was sampled at 200kW. If the cut off is a 100 because the maximum frequency of signal is 100,

and if quantized to 16 bits per sample, that's going to be 16 into 200, which is 3.2mbps.

What are hearing system. Can only detect frequencies up to 20kW.

So if you pre-filter this by putting it through a low pass filter with limited to 20kHz and then sample at 40kHz, then the overall signal will be 40.

Times 16, which is 640 bits for sale. So you can see that the quality of your reception is going to maintain.

It's going to be the same. You will not have any interesting effect, although your sampling at lesser than the cutoff.

So understanding perception or the frequencies of perception, and thereby filtering their content to be at twice the maximal frequency.

Sorry to be at that frequency of reception. Then you can sample at twice the maximal frequency so as to get a really good signal.

So we talked about subsampling by two.

Subsampling by four. Um. Yeah.

Any questions so far? How has the pace been?

I know it's very hard for me to gauge because I can. You have a great understanding of your of of of uh of your of your of how you perceive this.

Since I'm on camera and you guys are in class. Uh, but, um.

Raise your hands if you feel that. A piece of cake. Right.

Do you want it to be faster or slower? We'll take that next one and come to class again.

Um. I've also uploaded some recent research in signal processing, which tells you an advancement.

This is a very nice people. I'd rather explain it to you in class next time.

But it's it shows you how all these signaling theories, which have been held very strongly for the past few.

Um. Plus many hundreds of years.

With a slight twist. Uh. You can see how, um.

Let me take an example. You can see how, uh.

Anything. Effects can be really grossly minimized by a boost in the, in the understanding, uh, where uh, some improvements in.

Here's a good example. So this is a high definition image of a well of a piece of for short with, uh, with with high frequency pattern.

Right. Um, what you see out here is if you.

It's. All.

You can see it here. You can see a few. Resample it or subsample it to something using any number of kind of filters.

You still get aliasing effects and missing effects, but if you do it with a slight variation, what does results suggest?

You see that the outputs are pretty. Uh.

Pretty good. Oh. When we tried digging for the full sized image.

Here is a full sized image that you can see. Um.

Um. There is a.

The resample industry for the new changes that you can see.

You can. Much.

So here's the original. Um, on the doll.

Um. See? That's what I've been. But when you.

Sampler, Don. You can see. Because of the averaging filter.

How it gets very blurry. The is anything but.

The aliasing is apparently minimized by being a pre-filter.

Uh, but with this adjustment to the peashooter, you can see that the output remains much better.

Similar to other filters that the various other filters that are being used, and this is an adjustment to the filter using the new TV.

Is another example of aliased outputs because of another filter.

Uh, but here is the output produced because.

So it's pretty remarkable how this has been patented and sold to be used in most of the production pipelines.

Okay. So once you're in.

The digital domain. You have audio signals which are one dimensional.

They may be stereo or surround sound, in which case every channel has got binary signals which are computed over time.

Your images which are 2D signals, which is a color x y location.

You have a video signal, which is a 3D signal, uh, with color at X, Y, and D, and you have graphics between the digital and the 2D graphical objects.

3D graphic will fix it. Now, in all these things, we know how audio signals are presented.

We know image signal presented. And you can guess a video signals a sequence of images and also represent what the video signals have actually a.

A big history from the beginning of television for analog video, for example.

This can be, although it's a two dimensional signal. The scanning mechanism perceives it as a one dimensional see.

So what happens is for every image you do, a scan line from top the top row to the next row, to the next row, to the next row, to the next row.

And for each row you have a, uh, horizontal, uh, a horizontal sync that comes in uh, and then.

Processing it until the last line.

Uh, and then there is a vertical thing that comes in. To make the electron gun go to the top left and it goes on scanning again, all ready.

So by going Scanlon, where Scanlon was, Scanlon on one image and then going to the next image of.

Of the next sequence in the frame. And we scan linear scan. Then it essentially converts a three dimensional signal.

Into a long one dimensional draw. And this was a long one dimensional row of of of of signal has is interspersed between

horizontal sync signals and vertical sync signals which make the electron gun.

Reset to the next row for the horizontal three and to the next frame on the top upper left corner for the horizontal for a vertical sink.

But this mechanism has allowed. A camera to capture a signal, a video signal in a scanline by scanline.

Line by line. Manner.

Kind of frame by frame manner, line by line, into essentially a one dimensional signal that can be sent over the ionosphere using,

uh, you know, uh, amplitude modulation or frequency modulation to come to a receiver,

uh, television when you're in your home, which then also can scan and by scan and render it, uh, in a synchronized manner, and thereby you see video.

Right. This is a this is a things that I think that the only black and white when the even when television started off,

uh, this was what was, uh, what was uh.

The. So if you look at the television evolution and this is connected, the entire thing you.

You have the, uh, um, video signal.

That was wanting to be digitized. And this video signal, as I said, was a, uh, was viewed as A1D signal with horizontal.

For example, things would go from scrambling to sunlight and vertical things.

We go from, um. Uh, you go from one thing to the next.

Know this. Was this allowed a camcorder?

In your studio for, you know, recording onto a table that say, uh, capture this signal.

And this was a black and white signal. So we call it a white signal. Okay.

This Y signal was then sent to a, um, radio tower.

Which broadcast the signal, and the signal came down to your antenna.

Right. And this then went into your television.

Or maybe you have gravity Earth and it's rendered it's scanline by scanline as

it scans scanline by scanline and then went to the next frame and next frame.

And you saw. A video.

You. But for this to work, the first thing that needed to happen was a synchronization between the capture device and the rendering device.

How do you synchronize? These.

And when you're talking about the 1930s, okay, 1920s and 30s.

How do you synchronize the signal being captured with the signal being displayed

so that both the scan and scan at the same time and render at the same time,

and go back to the next line, and next line, the next line and back to the top frame.

This is not an easy problem to solve, obviously, because this the camera capturing device is in a different location compared to the rendering device,

and there is no one connecting the two of them. If there was a wire going into, we could have just locked them or something or like, you know,

make sure that the synchronizing, the scanning on the in your camera is, is, is at the same rate as the um.

Through some real connection between the two devices, but the devices are just not connected.

So how do you ensure that there is a synchronization that is established between this?

To resolve that what the engineers of the time did was use the, uh, electrical outlet.

Glad frequency. So in the US and North America, the, um.

Electrical outlets are 60Hz. One ten volts.

This doesn't matter, right? Whereas in um, in Asia and other countries, it's 50Hz.

And at a higher voltage. And this was used.

This frequency of the output which was available.

When you plugged in the camcorder into the outlet. It is available when you plugged in the, um, the television to the outlet.

That frequency was available to help the synchronization process.

And as a result, this led to different standards. We had NTSC for 60 frames per second, and this is the file and sequence standards.

In Asia and in parts of Europe. Um, then I've got a 50Hz.

So that's number one. So the first problem was synchronization problem.

Okay. The second problem was, um.

So let me just write the problem down. Was synchronization.

Kind of synchronization is between the captured instrument and the displacement, which are not connected in any way.

The outlet, so does a way to resolve the connection and the frequencies of the outlets.

Uh, was used for that. And as a result, the video,

the television video that was captured in the United States and Northern America

with 60Hz follows a different standard compared to the television signal.

And this captured in other parts of Asia and Europe, which which takes 50 hours.

So that's.

Outcome number one, which now when you go to the digital pipeline, you need to respect this because there are empty signals everywhere recorded.

There are found signals everywhere the corner. The second one was your dream.

Stream. Fast forward. The technology of the TV's first full screen,

which was now being illuminated by an electron gun as scanned from left to right and left to right and left to right, and so on.

Well, such that with a scan from left to right, at that rate it glowed.

And you saw online I. It's just a very high frame rate.

I scanned it, right. But when it came to the lower portion.

The upper falls for which was which was which was lit started to fade away over time.

And so by the time you get to the bottom, to the top was fading away.

And when it reset back to the top. And so it's counting on the top, the bottom started fading away.

And this fade started to cause visual.

Um, you know, visual trouble in accepting the signal. And so flicker, which is not.

Which is not good. Okay. And so that problem needs to be resolved.

And the way the engineering community at that point solve the problem was by splitting.

One frame. Into.

Who feels. Which is the odd field.

And even for you. So understand this concept of the same thing which has got, let's say, 400 lines.

Is now been split into.

Two fields, each of 200 lines, where the odd field contains all the odd numbered lines, and the even field contains only the equal number plates.

So how does that help? Uh, well.

It helps. Why? Um. By seeing the two fields differently.

The upper field or the odd field and the lower field and the even field and the television would then render.

The evil filled out. And then also in the opposite, the odd field out.

And then as the outfield started to decay, it came in the middle and interspersed it with the evil few.

Right. So the decay was not noticeable because in between the two lines there was a new refresh.

Uh, refresh render being done by the scan lines.

So there is no. It's only a smarter way to scan.

You're not doing any more, um, information or getting any more information.

I'm getting less. And for me, the same amount of information. It is all the scan lines for free and all the frames per second,

but just the order in which you're scanning the scan lines and transporting them has states just scanning them,

not in a progressive manner, which is line by line by line.

Which led to the decay of the phosphor and render time when the coverage.

But rather than that, your scanning every odd line first, followed by even line, and this order even separation now gives rise to um, uh uh,

a render process between the online first and then your lines interspersed such that when one field starts to decay,

the other one is coming in the middle and drawing over it. And so the, the flicker problem is now.

Less noticeable on the positive to be not. So.

That was the second problem to be solved. With me so far.

And the reason I'm, you know, we need to understand all this is because not only go to the digital domain.

You need to support. NTSC and Pal as formats in the digital formats.

You need to be able to support progressive and um, and uh, um, uh, this is called interlaced.

Into this fields in your in your format. And the third big thing that happened.

Through the signals was rendered with the introduction of color.

In the 1930s and 40s, when color. Color theory became, uh, well understood.

Phenomena or understood. Uh uh uh um, area.

And you could capture color signals. You also wanted to transmit color signals right now, color signals.

And the color cameras, they work by capturing time. The war by the concordant is going to capture.

O, r, g and b three.

Channels. So there will be three scan lines.

Paul Scanlon 0323. Scans for line one is going to be the scan.

One is going to be the G scale, one is going to be the scan. So now your amount of information has triple.

So we have two subproblems that the bandwidth is high.

It will not transmit at the frequency carrier that was decided before.

That's number one and number two. There's already an ecosystem of black and white television distributed all over the, you know, the marketplace.

And now you're imposing a color distribution at the same time. How do you make the two different types of.

Uh, gives play well when the transmission can be of only one type, either a black and white transmission or a color transmission.

Now think of a scenario in which. People in the, in the, in the, uh, in the city or in the world have got black and white and colored televisions.

Right. And now if you transmit just black and white transmission.

Yeah. So the color televisions can be made to display just black and white, but not the reverse.

If it's a color transmission going, the need to make sure you have some solution in place that if it's a color TV, is displays the color signal.

And if it's a black and white TV, it displays the black and white signal.

And for this to happen we the there was a colorspace transmission a transition which converted RGB.

Who? Why you? Thanks.

So y u v is a color space which consists of y.

Which is the luminance signal, and u and V which is the prominence of colors.

So the Y and the C signal was then sent across to the um, to the transmission tower to be sent to the different televisions.

And when this came back to the, uh.

Oh, uh, by the antennas. Um, this Y and C signal was split up into y and u and V, and then there was a conversion from y u v to RGB.

Because if it was a television and for the the, uh uh uh, not a color television, you just ignore that.

Would you and V just do the Y and just do the life of your black and white television?

So that way you ensure that both the black and white and the colored transitions work.

Okay, but this is not all we have to support in a digital formats the way you reformat now.

And the original problem is for bandwidth.

And multiplied by three. And the other one was the, uh.

Color plus black and white. These.

In the ecosystem. Right. So we solve this problem by inventing the new region of space.

The bandit problem still remains because even though you converted to binary,

you have still have y, u and v, which is three times one channel, but the three channels.

And to be able to deal with that, you need to throw away information so that the bandwidth reduced.

And for that, we had to leave the, uh.

A process for the engineers new to invent. Uh, different.

Why? You've, um. Subsampling techniques.

Where you throw away parts of. Either Y, you or V, depending upon, uh, what you want to accomplish.

Now, the choice of why you V was was pretty deliberate.

Uh, why? U v is a space which separates out criminals information which is you and V from the luminance information.

No statistically or psycho visual experiments.

It was shown that the why information is a lot more important to perception than the color information you and.

So if we can find a mechanism in which you keep all the y's and maybe for bandwidth considerations,

throw away some of the dual v's, then maybe you can reduce your bandwidth and still give a better color image quality.

And that's why these are some things to introduce. So the first thing I want to talk about is just for completeness.

So you know how it works. You have why you've move forward for.

Okay. So what you're doing out here is in your, uh, samples that you have.

Right. So I'm just drawing the first few samples. If you're scanline by scanline.

What these increase in this score like. So you have got a layer of samples like this for your Y.

You have a little samples like this for you. And then there are samples like this for your V.

Now this is we don't really have a why we for for for something standard,

but I'm just illustrating this so that you can understand the upcoming other standards that that are

more important and that I use very heavily in the why you before for for we take for for pixels.

In the local area and four pixels in a local area, and so on and so forth.

And for all this, for we keep. All y samples, all phone y.

We give all for you and we keep all for me.

Now, originally the RGB were eight bits per channel.

Conversion to why you read keeps it to be eight bits for Y for you and for B also.

So it's total of 24 bits per pixel, right. We're going to keep all four of why you get four into eight which is equal to 32.

You get four into eight which is equal to 32 bits. You go to four into eight which is equal to 32.

Some those of you get it equal to two plus two plus two and three plus three plus three.

That's 96. So you get 96 bits overall.

So the average bits per pixel.

It's going to be equal to 96 divided by four pixels, because you're considered four pixels together, and that's equal to.

24 bits per pixel. No surprises there because he didn't throw anything.

He started at 24 and you got back 24.

This process was just for you to understand how the calculation, of course, of the year for why you went.

Because now when you go to the next one. Which is why you, the poor who do.

Here also you have. Your slices of your wise.

You use. And your visa, right?

So for every four pixels that you're considering now. Okay.

You keep all four. Why? Because why is that important for your perception?

That's equal to four times eight, which is equal to 32. But you keep two of you out of your use and two of you leave.

Right. So you might keep wild here, wild here, wild, wild you.

But you just keep. You're you out here and you're you out here, and you vote here and you vote here.

You throw away the U and V in this location. Okay x is equal to two times eight equal to 16.

Again two times x is equal to 16. So you get uh eight and 614 get it 13456.

And so your average. And it's for pixel because they're taking four pixels at a time.

So is equal to 64 or by four is equal to 16.

So you managed to save. 33% of your bandwidth.

By throwing away and using two things.

When the receiver gets this, it knows exactly. Knowing it's a 4 to 2, it knows exactly which use.

And these are mixed with a missing.

And so it interpolates them, or just copies the value of u and v from here into the original, into the missing locations.

So it's, uh. Uh, interpolated value or, uh, filled in value.

But it so happens that the field in values for our human perception. Not that noticeable.

Because color is not as important in your perception.

And you can go further. Subsample it further by taking a y, u v for two or or.

It's also called for one one. The average bits per pixel is the same, but the difference is in which pixels?

Are you throwing away the user visa? So if you take the same.

Locations. This is your image.

Slices of wine you envy. So on.

So for. 442.

Oh. Okay. We're going to keep all for why.

What is equal to eight times four which is equal to 32. And you're taking these two guys.

Because you're going to take one. One u and one v, which is equal to one times or eight times one.

Eight times 1 to 8. And you will take your all your wise.

I'm going to take one of you using one of your rules and throw the others away.

So out of four pixels you have all the font wise, but you have only one pixel with the U and one pixel with three.

The total comes out to be 48. And so the average.

That's. For pixel is going to be going to 48 by four, which is equal to 12.

So 12 is a 50% savings in your bids.

And so when the receiver gets this. The it gets all the for wise but for the missing.

Using these it just interpolates them in the neighborhood.

I'll make a copy of the same. Depends on what the strategy you use, and then converts what you read to RGB and displays the argument.

And that in itself, uh, perceptually is uh, yeah.

You do, you do see, uh, the, uh, the loss of vibrance of color.

But still, given that it's a 50% lossy saving researcher, it seems to be okay.

And that was the reason why you go to a while. You reach out where you're separating the luminance from the criminals and

giving less importance to the criminals based on psychophysical experiments.

What they've shown. This is the fourth duel and the fourth one one.

You do the same thing, exact thing. But instead of taking four pixels in a corner like this, or in a in a square area,

you take four pixels in a, in a longer in, you know, four pixels in a row,

or you keep all the four wise you can do, um, visit the first two and the remaining three,

you have no you in vs you just copy them all in at the at the receiving end.

If you looked at how the 041142422 subsampling goes, because here is your, um, your Y samples, which you're keeping all over the place.

You're keeping the U and V are the Cbn.com.

That's a similar series in this this location.

Right. Um. And if it's in the list scanning, then you can see what happens.

But this is what you're what? You're actually transmitting.

So you can see as a result of this, you have really gone down to 50%.

And the receiver, when your receiving the receiver has ordered twice, uh, the missing places of where it goes using these.

It will just leave a copy of locally of of the neighborhoods or interpolate them however you want to, uh, justify filling in the missing values.

And then once you have the missing values, you can then convert your wikler y, u,

v into RGB and then give it to your, uh, television to render scan line by scanning the thing that comes.

You know, it's a 42 something thing.

So for every four pixels, you're keeping all the four Y's in the 4x4 neighborhood and keeping two Jews and two V's.

And at the receiving end, and all the missing use using these are.

Then there's an interpolated value or a copied over value, which is incoming into RGB and shown for display.

Yeah. So this makes it.

Well, what have we done so far? Um. What I explained to you and to summarize is, um.

When television became a reality, there was black and white television,

which needed to be, which led some really good engineering solutions for synchronization,

which was solved by taking 60Hz signal and 50Hz signal, depending upon the region that you go to.

Right. And this has led to the NTSC format and the fourth and the second format, which are very different formats.

But now once you go into the digital representation, we still have to represent this somehow because of legacy.

The other one was a TV screen phosphor deck.

The decay mechanism causes the flickering effect, and to resolve that what was done was, uh, introduction of progressive and,

and, uh, and um, interlaced scanning the into this scanning produce splitting one frame into two fields,

the art field and even then sending the odd field separately from the even field so that the render relative,

the function of the other hand, would then render the two interspersed, thereby minimizing the effect for the outcome of.

This is. Now the interlaced format needs a representation in the digital format for formats of the legacy.

The third thing is with the introduction of color, which caused an increase in the bandwidth,

like an increase in the bandwidth led to subsampling schemes like the why we for 20111123422.

And these subsampling schemes now are signals that are that have been present for a long time.

And so when you go to a digital form you also need an equivalent representation in digital form that resources.

We learned to calculate the equivalent bits per pixel. So in this example we've taken eight bits per pixel.

But they could be cameras that could be, um, captioning at 16 bits per pixel and then doing a full two.

Right. So in this case instead of four times eight plus eight plus eight would be four times 1616 per 16.

It just depends on what your original bit depth is and what what happens after your subsampling.

Moving on. Uh. There's another important thing that happened with radio signals, which is the image aspect ratio.

And this is simply the ratio for growth and height.

Now, typically, as the video cameras evolved when the original exam and uh tests were done on the examples we created.

This used to be a four by three image format, uh, where the length was was well, then to birth ratio was 4 to 3.

And this became a standard way because of the, um, the experimentation and little just adoption, I guess, became a standard way of, uh, of,

you know, how give you signals were formed and hence the video signals were formed, uh, with cameras and it stayed that free for a long time.

At some point in the. Early 90s, we decided to have a high definition television signal with a 16 by nine video format.

And then also introduce all the Cinemascope. Uh, 47 is a 20, um, format.

And I've seen I've tried to give you examples below of what those formats and images look like.

And the content of each is probably one of the first films that was shot with a camera of that standard.

So on the upper left, not here, is gone with the wind.

Uh, we just shot with the four by three standard format. Um, if you are a movie buff and you know what movie this is.

Um, this is The English Patient, shot with a 16 by nine, uh, video format.

This was in the mid-nineties. And, um, in the late 90s.

This is a Cinemascope movie. Um. And then a morphic kind of lens.

And this was. Um, the, uh.

Saving Private Ryan, I think. Mm. And why this format were invented?

I don't know. I think I have a theory about it.

And this is because of the, um, evolution of the movie industry vis a vis the home entertainment industry.

When the movie industry evolved. It started with the four by three format.

It introduced color and people who should go to movie theaters to watch colored movies.

Um, there was, uh, stereo sound and so on and so forth.

Uh, but pretty soon home televisions also gave the same effect.

A four by three. Done. Um formats with with with uh, uh, stereoscopic sound.

And so to. Increase the quality of your view of your of your of your cinema experience.

The movie industry in 2016 is demanding high resolution formats, so you get a clearer picture and a better experience.

Um, well, that started happening also to televisions, right?

Uh, at that point of time, I think the movie industry just introduced, um, surround sound decks.

Uh, well, you have surround sound also at home. And then the movie industry introduced.

Cinemascope. And then they introduced, uh, stereoscopic watching movies in 3D.

So all this time, you know, it's always been a way to provide a better experience to consumers,

going to want a different experience going because he was going to watch television.

So you can justify the $2,024 cost of a movie experience.

Uh, so yeah, but the outcome of this is that because of.

Movies that are now being that have now been made and mastered.

And muscle a master copy that is being kept. For storage or for legacy reasons.

Have the four by three format. Have the Cinemascope format.

Have the 16 by nine high definition HDTV format?

Um, when it comes to, um, repurposing these movies for transmission reasons or consumption reasons,

not all the televisions in the world are still high definition, but there's still televisions, which are maybe four by three.

And so content needs to be frequently inter converted between one.

Aspect ratio to another. And this conversion leads to all kinds of problems.

So for example,

if you had a four by three format and converted that simply by scaling the image of the frame set of frames up to a 63 Cinemascope format.

You see how the pixels get stretched? Or similarly, if you had, uh, cinematographic movie, which you wanted to now,

uh, display on a standard definition television with the four by three aspect.

You can see how the pixels gets get stretched vertically. And this.

Are not desirable. One way to normally solve this is by little proxy.

So if you if you get a DVD of of of a high definition, uh, format playing on a standard television,

you will see that, you know, the upper, uh, the upper part of the image and the lower part is all locked up.

Uh, right. And the image is only in the middle. That's because they don't want to stress the pixels.

Um, but in doing so, yeah, you preserve the aspects, but you end up not making, uh, justifying the optimal use of your realistic screen.

And and how do you resolve the problem? And this is not an easy problem to solve because you can have stretching happening.

You can have none. You can minimize it by making assumptions like some Sony came up with the with the format would say,

which made the assumption that when you're looking at the screen, you're looking at in the center.

So maybe the center is always going to be fed properly. And the non-linearity stretching can be, you know,

put in the in the corners where you're not looking at all the time, but that the results are disturbing.

Um, until recently when there was this new research called seed carving, which came about and try to, um, very intelligently, um.

Um, resize images depending upon what the content is.

Grid. Um, and this is even before the times of Siem carving for content aware image.

This is before the times of uh, um. Of neural networks, I think.

Um. But it was a nice.

To resizing. Digital media today has the ability to know here.

Hands up if you can. You. Okay. Dynamic page layouts.

By changing the window or display size, we can change the layout of a document.

However, images embedded in a document typically remain rigid in size and shape.

Resizing is also important to fit images into different displays.

Current techniques, including cropping or scaling, are limited in their abilities to capture the image content.

We present a method for content aware resizing of images.

Our technique enables resizing while adapting the image, content and layout.

This is sometimes called retargeting. We also define a flexible multi size representation for images that supports continuous resizing.

An image can be shrunk in a non-uniform manner while preserving its features, but it can also be extended beyond its original size.

Instead of scrolling through images that do not fit in a given display, we gracefully resize them to fit inside the window.

For example, assume that we need to change the width of an image. The simplest way to do this is to remove columns of pixels from the image.

The best column to remove would be the least noticeable or least important column.

We can search for this column by defining an importance or energy function on the image.

In this example, we use the gradient magnitude of the image. Next, we look for the column which contains the least energy and remove it.

However, using such an approach quickly leads to serious artifacts.

Therefore, instead of using rigid columns,

we search for connected paths of pixels or seams from one side of the image to the other that contain the least energy.

This can be done using a simple dynamic programing algorithm, as described in the paper, in both vertical and horizontal directions.

Here's another example of an image. Its energy function and the least noticeable horizontal and vertical seams.

By successively removing horizontal and vertical seams, the image can be resized in a non-uniform manner.

The order of seam removal in an image defines an order on the pixels of the image.

By storing the simple indexing information, we create content to where multi size images.

In this image, we color all pixels according to the order of their seam removal from blue to red.

To enlarge an image we first calculate seems as if we were to shrink the image.

Instead of removing these seams, we insert new seams in these locations.

The pixels of the new seams are the average of the pixels alongside the new seam positions.

This enables a smooth transition between reducing and enlarging the image size and multi size images.

We have tested different possible energy functions for retargeting such as entropy,

saliency, histogram of gradient direction, and eye movement measurements.

The results depend on the given image, but simple gradient magnitude often gives satisfactory results.

For certain content, such as faces. Where the relations between features are important.

We define a simple user interface, enabling the designer to protect these image areas.

The application is also used as an authoring tool for creating multi sized images.

Note that in this specific example, automatic face detection can be used to identify the areas that need protection.

To illustrate another application for this tool, we show a simple object removal procedure by adding negative weights to the energy of an image.

The user can attract the seems to pass through specific areas first by reducing the size of the image,

these areas are removed first, in effect erasing them to retain its original size.

The image is enlarged by using seam insertion. Note that this technique changes the whole image and does not simply erase the objects marked.

More examples can be found in the paper and the supplemental materials.

Thank you for your attention. All right.

So that was seemed far removed to the more intelligent way to resize images.

Being aware of the content in the. We also still image formats, which I don't think are very relevant today because we have very high graphics cards.

Uh, but the video format that you see out here in the final, you can see that there's.

A name hit of this name means something self-consistent corresponds to common interchange format.

Usage is quite a common interchange, one of. All of these are have been invented for, or at least established for some application or the other.

And for each of them, it gives you what the is all digital format which gives you what the, uh, um.

Um, the lines for Fremont and the pixels for line art.

Um, so this gives you the width and this gives you. So this gives us the height and this gives you the width.

And um. You have frames per second.

Uh, whether they're interlaced or not. Uh, subsampling scheme used and the aspect ratio used.

And, and depending upon what these numbers are, you can figure out what the bitrate of the signal is going to be.

Like for example, the HDTV format, which is uh, the activity, this is progressive or interlaced because um.

Positively progressive. So it's 21 1923 949742.

All right. So then 1892 9497 um for to work corresponds to 50% savings, which is 24 bits per pixel during the underground Pittsburgh pixel.

Uh, and if you compute all that, you get a bit rate of 745 megabits for high definition per second for the high definition stream, which is a lot.

Especially if you to have multiple streams.

So the next question is how do we take all this information and make sense of it for storage and transmission by compressing it.

Um. Yeah.

Um, let's talk about graphs for a vector, raster scans or graphics later on.

This should bring me to the end of the lecture. Anyone?

Any questions? Um.

I don't see any questions on Piazza. Um.

No questions in the chat. So are we good?

So the question for us, are we going to get the first one? Yeah. So I'm going to announce it today.

I'll show it share it and we'll post it up by tomorrow with uh, with uh, the distributor posting the, um, the starter code also.

Um, so let me just summarize what we did so far before we get into the, uh, segment.

Um, we started with the digital media pipeline from front to back.

I mean, just, I mean. We discussed about the first step in the pipeline, which is trying to, um.

Understand the digitization process and this is where we received it.

We understood that this process is happening through quantization and sampling.

Sampling and quantization. Both are very important points.

Um, sampling tries to capture the places at which the signal needs to be sample, while quantization tries to assign a number of bits for each sample.

Now, understanding, uh, the requirements of both.

It's very important to know what your sampling rate is and what the bits represented from Pittsburgh for sampling are going to be.

The sampling rate is decided by understanding that the signal has got a maximum frequency in it.

Um, and the big takeaway that I want to that I wanted to give you Digweed is.

The world in which we live in is very structured. It's not random signals, and that's what we are going to learn.

Uh, given that it's structured, uh, the signals that we want to measure to go around the world and also to create a digital representation,

also, we can have a multimedia pipeline of immersive content and what not all these signals have got.

Not all frequencies present, but a few frequencies present.

These few frequencies have a maximal frequency that you can find at least in some for you.

Uh, this is. Given the maximum frequency we know very well can.

Sample at more than twice the sampling rate, and that will ensure that the characteristics of the signal content are preserved.

Moreover, for the number of bits, you want to just fix it to that number such that your perception.

Is is okay. Adding more bits will not increase your perception.

So using these two methods or these two ideas, we can fix the sampling rate and the bitrate and the and the and the number of bits per sample,

giving you just the right amount of information, bits per second that you can start the signals.

So you are guaranteed to produce the right signal when you go back to the analog for rendering purposes, for marketing purposes.

Okay. Um, and then we talked about, like, what happens in the multimedia pipeline when you have to resample the signal that's already captured,

like an image has to reformatted or recycle.

How do you minimize the anything effect using filters and so on.

We understood what aliasing is. Examples in 1D in 2D and 3D.

And finally we talked about the evolution of the television pipeline, um, with the television signal.

Uh, by the introduction of the, um, um, uh, the frame rate or the field rate, uh,

at 60Hz or 50Hz, depending upon the region that supplied, um, the electric signals.

This is for synchronization. And then the introduction of the interlaced formats for the phosphor screen, like flickering.

And thirdly, with the introduction of color, the value subsampling schemes that have.

Yeah. So with that. Let's talk about the assignment.

So the assignment that you're getting. You.

Um. It's a sign today.

Right. Um, and it's due on, uh, after three weeks.

So you have ample amount of time to do the assignment by 5 p.m. in the afternoon.

This is a Monday. Uh, late policies?

None. Unless you have some medical reasons or emergencies.

And, you know, you talk to the doctors before. Um, there is a theory plan which consists of a few questions.

And, um, this is for your attempt, uh, here, there for you to attempt it.

Um. Uh, please try it. We will not.

You're not required to submit the theory part. Um, but we will be posting solutions to this after the submission deadline.

Um, so that we can check whether your answers are correct or good to know how to solve the puzzle.

These are questions in, uh, subsampling schemes and quantization techniques and temporal reducing.

And so. The programing park. Oh, it's got 200 points.

And it's going to test your understanding of resampling, quantization and filtering.

Uh, it's being motivated by the fact that, uh, in.

When you take an image, uh, you normally end up taking a, uh, uh, uh,

image with maybe a consumer camera, which has got different bits for sample bits per pixel.

Or it could be a master digital camera with the Galaxy.

Uh, Alexi, uh uh uh, are you camera or, uh, or, you know, the red cameras or, you know,

the really nice commercial cameras which which which, uh, which may be a 12 bits per channel, which is total of 36 bits per pixel.

Um, but for distribution reasons, you and consumption reasons, they need to be resample, uh, to represent a different budget.

And so this is going to teach you about how to get to hands dirty, understanding images, resampling quantization techniques and so on.

Okay. The most important thing is for this assignment.

We are not allowed to use any libraries or any nodes or any, uh, scripting environments like Python or Matlab.

You will expect that you C, C plus, plus or Java and we will give you.

Your starter code, which you can start with a project in VS code or Java.

Um, there are four parameters. Uh, um, which is given, uh, values.

Um, that is the image input. Uh, the image, uh, side the image, uh, uh, file, which is a five 12.2 size.

So stick to this format. This the sample code should start which should be able to view the file to the photo file, for example, and display it.

So you can assume that, uh, the other parts are there for you to implement and make sense of this assignment.

Um, the second parameter is a scale value, which will allow you to take your your 16 by nine format and get it down to four by three.

You like, you know, whenever you want to resample, um, this is going to be effectively the same in X and Y.

So you can have one scale value if there are different than you can do different.

There is a quantization number of bits, which is a number, uh, this number is between 1 and 24.

Um, it's going to be mostly, uh, multiples of three because all the three channels have the same number of bits.

The fourth parameter is the mode of quantization, which would be uniform quantization or most modern logarithmic quantization,

or even the most smart optimized quantization, which you need to come up with.

And there's a fifth parameter, which is optional.

Well, just for extra credit, if you've attempted extra credit, we will call it with the last parameter as one.

And we expect to see outputs which are better.

Um, so how will you be evaluated? Uh, there's going to be a resampling test.

There's going to be quantization test. There's going to be analysis questions, and it's going to be extracted if that's attempted.

There are so simple ways of invoking invoking your program and what they mean in terms of their outputs.

So you can get ideas of what to expect. Um, and the details of the recommendations are shown up here.

And how do you go about creating the final image? Uh, by resampling.

Uh, if you're using minimum uniform quantization, how would you quantize the inputs?

If you're using logarithmic quantization, how do you decide the logarithmic levels?

Or if you're using an optimal interval quantization. With, with your input to 26.

Then how would you decide, uh, to come up with better techniques which are not.

Um, from a priority company to the thresholds are not considered a priority depending upon the number of goods.

But you could dynamically, depending on the content of the image. Uh, figured out what the other the things are.

Um, and then there's an analysis question which tries to make you understand how good is your output.

For this, you've been, uh, you know, asked to implement an error metric, which is a mean squared error or a mean absolute error.

You can try one, but not necessary for both. Or you can try both if you want.

But it's ask you to plot graphs where you see for a given image, uh, over different Q values.

Quantization bits. How is your error changing? And if you can see any trend uh, in that and to explain the trend.

Uh, and this you want to use for your, uh, logarithmic, your uniform quantization and logarithmic quantization,

as well as your smart your, your optimal, uh, thresholds in quantization.

And then for your extra credit, this is something which if you choose to attempt,

we will collect it and you keep your marks separately at the end of the semester after the grades are decided.

We look at the expected contribution and if that is enough to push you to the next grade.

We would certainly, you know, take that liberty and do that and that that respect.

And so in the in the executive portion, you're you'll make the next one condition which really changes the problem.

What if the number of bits per channel were not the same.

You can adapt them to, uh, how you want to use it for the content.

So you can have the original having one bit, the green tail having four bits and the red channel having um, three bits.

So if that's the case, how do you then come up with an optimization algorithm that can spread your bets in a smart way between your channels,

on top of what you've done on clear,

which is your smart quantization, and see that you get better results and prove that you can get better results by,

you know, computing your, you know, your metrics properly. Uh, what you do submit, uh, don't submit any binaries or images.

Just submit your code and your project plan. We will compile.

We'll create our binaries and we will run tests on them for the analysis part as well as the extracted question.

If you attempt to do so, please submit a word document and PDF, uh, you know, PDF audio.

Um, we should do an analysis. All right.

I will post this soon enough. Uh, when?

Tonight or tomorrow. So you can get to take a look at it. Um.

But otherwise. Next Monday. Classes as usual. See you in class.

All right. Thank you Christopher. Thank you students, and thank you again for cooperating for today.

Um. I know it's not the best scenario when it is online.

Um, but this was the only way I could make it work today. Hopefully I can make it up to you guys in the coming.

Um, coming. This. Good night.

